Now that we're able to create new users,
how does authentication work in the graphql world?
Does it work in a similar way to rest APIs,
do we use sessions again?
Well remember this slide, a graphql API is also stateless and client independent,
so generally we still authenticate by using such a token which we then attach to every request that should
be able to access protected resources and a login action is in the end just a normal query where
we send some user data and where we want to get back a token,
right.
So in the end what we can do here is the following, on our backend code, in our schema,
I will now define a real query instead of my dummy placeholder
hello query which I'll name login. Here
I'll need some data
and I could again define my own input, like here
I did for user input data but also to show how to use multiple arguments,
I will expect an email which is a string and a password which is a string
and then I will return not a user but some data that contains let's say the user id and the token because
these are the two pieces of information
I happen to need here and that makes sense as a response.
Of course you could also return the overall user object.
So here I'll define new type, I'll name it auth data and that will be my token which is a string and my
user ID which will be a string,
this is the data I will return when someone sends a query to login.
Now we need a resolver for this of course, so let's head over to resolvers and after create user,
I'll add my login resolver,
there again I get my args and I can use destructuring again to retrieve the email and the password argument
which I both get because I defined both here in my login query.
Again I want to use async await,
so I will turn this into an async function with this syntax and in there, in my login resolver, the
goal
now of course is to find a user with the right email address and then confirm the password.
So first of all, I'll get my user by awaiting for user find one where I look for an e-mail address in the
database that should match the e-mail I'm getting as an argument.
If this is not set, if the user is undefined
now, I know that I've found no user with that e-mail address and therefore I can create a new error where
I say user not found or whatever you want to set as an error message. I can set a code here just
as I did it for create user of let's say 404
because we didn't find the user or 401 because the user could not authenticate, I'll go with
401 and I'll throw that error. If we have passed this if check, then we know that we have a user with
that e-mail address,
now we need to check the password. For that we used the bcrypt package and there, the compare function
and we pass in the password, send with the request and the stored hashed password.
Now this is an asynchronous operation which gives us a promise so we can await that and I get back the
isEqual response.
Now if it's not equal, then I know the user entered a wrong password, so I can create a new error here
where I say password is incorrect and I can also set an error code or 401 here
and then also throw that error of course, otherwise both the email exists and the password is correct
and now I can generate a token. And for that, I'll again import my json web token package by requiring
json web token here and then down there in the login resolver, I will generate a token by running
JWT sign, here you now pass the data you want to encode in the token, that could be your user ID which
you get from user_id toString to convert it to a string,
maybe you also want to encode the email by getting that from the user you retrieve from the database
and the second argument to the sign method then is your super secret secret which you use for signing
the token which you then also use for verifying it, something we'll do later
and I'll configure the token with the third argument by setting the expires key in that object you
pass to the third argument to one hour, so that the token expires after one hour.
That is exactly what we did in the rest API section too. Now I will return that token in a token key and
make sure to match that schema you defined here, so token and user ID is returned.
So in the resolver, we return the token on the token key and the user ID which is again my user _id
toString.
And now with that, we have a login query in place where we send like a get request to log the user in, to
get the token and so on you could say. Now we need to wire that up to the frontend in the next step
and then of course, test it.
If you're feeling bold, also try that on your own of course.